.I 721
.W
etiology of trypan blue induced antenatal
hydrocephalus in the albino rat
wistar strain albino rats were injected with 1 cm3 of a 1% solution
of trypan blue.  three types of dye were used: matheson, coleman and bell,
chroma-gesellschaft and a highly purified sample.  the dyes were injected on
days 6, 7, and 8 of gestation.  fetuses were excised from days 16 through 20,
fixed, decalcified where necessary, embedded in paraffin, serially sectioned
and stained.  newborn young were treated similarly.  chroma-gesellschaft
trypan blue was without reproductive or teratogenic effect at the above doses.
increasing the dose did not increase the teratogenicity but did yield a
decrease in litter size.  both matheson, coleman and bell trypan blue and the
purified sample were teratogenic.  the most frequent neural defect observed
was hydrocephalus.  serial sections of the newborn hydrocephalics showed an
occluded or extremely tenotic aqueduct of sylvius in 31 of 33 sectioned
animals.  the fetuses collected from days 18 through 20 also had occluded or
stenotic aqueducts if hydrocephalic.  aqueductal stenosis or occlusion was
present in 17-day-old fetuses, but hydrocephalus was not conclusively
demonstrated at this age.  sixteen-day-old fetuses did not have aqueductal
occlusion in any of those examined, but stenosis was evident.  it is concluded
that the defect predisposing to hydrocephalus in the young of trypan blue
treated rats of this strain is aqueductal stenosis or occlusion.
.I 722
.W
bilateral papilloma of the choroid plexus
a rare case of bilateral papilloma of the choroid plexus
in a five-and-a-half-year old hydrocephalic girl is pre-
sented.
the tumor encountered at autopsy was not suspected
during life, the existing hydrocephalus being attributed
to either cytomegalic inclusion disease or toxoplasmosis.
after post mortem examination, it was evident that
the hydrocephalus was due to two factors; hypersecretion
from the tumor itself, and obstruction at the level of the
sylvian aqueduct by a delicate, tense, translucent mem-
brane.
an interesting and uncommon additional feature of
this case was the presence, within the choroidal papillo-
ma, of well-formed haversian bone.
a plea is made for regularly considering papilloma of
the choroid plexus in the differential diagnosis of hydro-
cephalus in children, for here, early diagnosis and treat-
ment might conceivably result in total cure.
.I 723
.W
the diagnosis of hydrocephalus
the early diagnosis of hydrocephalus
is imperative if definitive steps for
its correction are to be effective.
transillumination is a fairly accurate
procedure that may offer the earliest
means of determining whether or not
the infant's head is enlarging.
however, serial head measurements
constitute the easiest and most
accurate method for early detection
of hydrocephalus.  charts of normal
head size of full-term and premature
infants are available to aid the
physician in evaluating any deviation
from normal.  once the condition has
been detected, it is up to the
neurosurgeon to determine the
treatment plan.  the operative procedure
most widely used for shunting the
excessive cerebrospinal fluid is
insertion of a spitz-holter valve.
early detection and improved treatment
methods will help prevent irreversible
intellectual damage likely to develop
if hydrocephalus continues unchecked.
.I 724
.W
infantile hydrocephalus and hematoma in the posterior fossa
we have presented a case of hydrocephalus in
an infant, the basic cause being intracranial
hemorrhage in the perinatal period.  surgical re-
moval of a hematoma in the posterior fossa did not
give permanent relief of the raised intracranial
pressure.  a lumbar air study at this stage dis-
closed information that the passage through the
intracerebral cerebrospinal-fluid pathways was
normalized whereas the extracerebral ones still
were occluded by arachnoiditis.  the condition
necessitated a ventriculo-atrial shunt.
.I 725
.W
urinary excretion of i131-diodrast injected intraventricularly
in communicating hydrocephalus and aqueduct stenosis
nine cases of expansive infantile hydro-
cephalus were investigated by injecting
small amounts of i131-diodrast intra-
ventricularly.  urinary excretion of the
tracer was determined during the first
4-5 hours after injection.  the cumulative
excretion of diodrast from the c.s.f. dif-
fers in cases with communicating hydro-
cephalus from those with stenosis of the
aqueduct.  the investigation is rapid and
easily performed and has not produced any
side effects.
.I 726
.W
gastrointestinal
ulceration and central
nervous system lesions
there is both a real and an apparent in-
crease in the incidence of severe gastroin-
testinal ulceration due to central nervous
lesions.  some of this increased incidence
reflects recently devised iatrogenic measures
including new drugs and surgical therapy.
in adults, cerebrovascular lesions are the
commonest single cause of acute peptic ul-
ceration found at autopsy.  in children, we
found 25 instances of upper gastrointestinal
ulceration due to central nervous system le-
sions in 1,750 autopsies.  two general ana-
tomical categories could be recognized: acute
ulceration and malacias.
a variety of causative central nervous sys-
tem lesions was responsible in these 25 cases,
the commonest being bacterial meningitis.
other causes were poliomyelitis, brain tu-
mor, hydrocephalus,
etc.  theories of pathogenesis are presented.
more experience with both drug and surgical
therapy is needed.  the recent development
of local freezing techniques offers promise
for reduction of mortality.
.I 727
.W
mansonia crassipes as the natural vector of filarioids, plasmodium gallinaceum
and other plasmodia of fowls in ceylon
it would appear from these
observations that
m. crassipes is the natural vector of
p. gallinaceum of fowls
in ceylon and possibly of other
species of plasmodium of
fowls or of related avian hosts.
if one of the other
plasmodia from m. crassipes is
in fact p. lophurae
then this will be the first record
of p. lophurae from
this part of the world.  we are,
however, not certain
whether the fowl is the natural
vertebrate host of
p. lophurae in ceylon.
we have seen crithidial forms in
the midgut of engorged
wild-caught m. crassipes.  this
mosquito may, therefore,
prove to be the vector of the
trypanosome as well.  the
trypanosome differs from
trypanosoma gallinarum and
t. calmettei which have previously
been reported from
fowls.
.I 728
.W
filariasis in portuguese timor, with observations on a new microfilaria
found in man
the results are described of an
investigation into filariasis in portuguese timor.
two types of microfilariae were
found in blood films: one was wuchereria bancrofti
and the other, referred to as the timor
microfilaria, is probably a new species.
blood surveys showed that
w. bancrofti and the timor microfilaria were widely
distributed in the territory but that infection
rates were usually low.
clinical lesions were few and mild;
elephantiasis was confined to oedema of the
lower limbs below the knee.
the timor microfilaria resembles
that of brugia malayi in general staining
reaction and appearance and in the possession
of two nuclei in the terminal thread, but
differs in over-all length, in cephalic-space ratio,
and in failure of the sheath to stain with
giemsa.  it is nocturnally periodic.  it was
rapidly removed from the peripheral blood
by treatment with diethylcarbamazine citrate
in daily doses of 9.3-13.3 mgm. per kgm. body
weight or 3.3-5.0 mgm. per kgm. body weight
for seven days.  only damaged fragments of
adult female worms were recovered.
the timor microfilaria was not
found in cats, dogs or monkeys.
the vectors of filariasis in timor
are still unknown.
.I 729
.W
dipetalonema obtusa (mccoy,1936) comb. n. (filarioidea:
onchocercidae) in colombian primates, with a description of the adult
microfilaria obtusa mccoy, 1936, was identified in
the blood of 29 (31%) of 93 cebus
capucinus and c. albifrons from northern colombia, but was not
found in an additional 42 c. apella and
99 saimiri sciurea from other areas in colombia.  the adult male
and female, recovered from the peri-
esophageal connective tissue of the infected animals, are described
in detail.  dipetalonema obtusa (mc-
coy, 1936) comb. n. resembles tetrapetalonema marmosetae faust,
1935, but is smaller and the right
spicule is complex, not simple.
.I 730
.W
experimental onchocercal ocular lesions in the chimpanzee
this is the first attempt to produce
onchocercal eye lesions with microfilariae of
o. volvulus in the chimpanzee.
live microfilariae, once in the anterior
chamber of the eye, could penetrate the an-
gle of the anterior chamber, the iris, the
ciliary body, the choroid and the vitreous.
most of the microfilariae injected alive
into the anterior chamber of the eyes of the
chimpanzee died within a short time.  com-
parison, therefore, could not be made be-
tween the effects of live and dead micro-
filariae.
microfilariae debris was demonstrated
within giant cells for the first time.
subconjunctival and limbal infiltration
with incipient pannus, inflammation within
the trabecular meshwork of the angle of the
anterior chamber and extensive active iri-
docyclitis were demonstrated in histologic
sections, although the conditions were clini-
cally quiescent.
the posterior segment lesion of oncho-
cercal chorioretinal degeneration could not
be reproduced.
subcutaneous and intravenous injec-
tions of worm extracts, derived from human
onchocercomas, may have contributed to the
onset of active choroiditis.  this sensitization
alone, without the intraocular injection of
microfilariae, had no effects on the eye.
various aspects of the pathogenesis of
human onchocerciasis are discussed on the
basis of present experimentation.
.I 731
.W
the occurence of dirofilaria magnilarvatum price
and brugia sp. in philippine monkeys
of 356 macaca philippinensis examined, three were
found infected with dirofilaria magnilarvatum price, 1959.
one of these was infected also with a species of brugla.
both species showed a sub-periodic type of microfilarial
periodicity.  these observations suggest that philippine
macaques may serve as reservoirs for sub-periodic
b. malayi on palawan, where high rates of infection have
been found in people living in small villages in the
forests.  mansonia bonneae was found naturally infected
with third stage larvae of d. magnilarvatum.  it is sug-
gested that monkeys may serve as reservoirs for sub-
periodic b. malayi on the island of palawan, where high
rates of infection with this species have been observed
in people living in small villages in the forest.
.I 732
.W
the filarial parasites of the eastern gorilla in the congo
a survey for parasites has been undertaken in 20 mountain
gorillas (gorilla gorilla beringei) from the eastern congo kivu
province.
six full-grown (two males and four females),
three adolescents
(one male and two females), and eleven
young gorillas were
examined, some of them during several
consecutive months.  nine
autopsies were performed.
no protozoa were discovered in the blood.
plasmodium parasites
which are common in gorillas and chimpanzees
from west africa
were never found in the eastern congo primates,
including ten
other gorillas examined previously and some fifty chimpanzees.
severe diarrhoea with a balantidiasis picture developed in two
young gorillas.  autopsy revealed however an intensive infection
with oesophagostomum stephanostomum and resulting fatty degenera-
tion of the liver.  oligotrichida belonging to the genus troglodytella
were commonly found in the intestinal tract.  oesophagostomum
stephanostomum eggs were consistently present in the stools of
the gorillas and autoinfection caused the death of several young
gorillas 4 to 6 weeks after their capture.
many microfilariae were found in the blood and the skin.  pre-
liminary communications were published mentioning the existence
of four different microfilariae in the blood of gorillas and of three
others in the dermal layers of the skin.  after a detailed study seven
species have been identified and described:  dipetalonema leopoldi,
d. gorillae, d. vanhoofi, d. streptocercum, microfilaria binucleata,
loa loa gorillae n.subsp. and onchocerca volvulus.  three of the
worms described have so far been discovered only in gorilla gorilla,
namely dipetalonema leopoldi, d. gorillae and loa loa gorillae.  two
of them were previously known from the chimpanzee, namely
d. vanhoofi and microfilaria binucleata.  one species, d. strepto-
cercum, first discovered in man and later described from the chimpan-
zee, is now also known from gorilla gorilla.  onchocerca volvulus has
been found in only one of the 20 gorillas examined.  gorilla gorilla
beringei in eastern congo might become through close contact
with man and his filarial vectors an abnormal or accidental host of
d. streptocercum and onchocerca volvulus or else might be considered
as an original reservoir of these filarial parasites of man.
.I 733
.W
a pilot project for the control of filariasis
in thailand
in a village in kanjanadit district of surat-thani province, south thailand,
where a field station for filariasis studies had been established by the
bangkok school of tropical medicine, blood films were examined from 977 persons
(95.5 per cent. of the total population of 1,023).  two thick films (each of
20 c.mm.) were prepared from each person and stained with giemsa.  it was found
that 21.1 per cent. of the people harboured microfilariae (all brugia malayi).
elephantiasis was found in 5.3 per cent. of the population.
microfilarial periodicity was studied in 25 persons; in every case it was
found to be markedly nocturnal.
the blood of 98 cats, 52 dogs and two monkeys was also examined.  no b. malayi
larvae were recovered.
mosquitoes were caught and identified.  in an initial survey, 4,557 mosquitoes
were examined, of which 568 were mansonia spp.  in 4,136 dissections, b. malayi
larvae in stage ii were found in one m. uniformis and in stage iii in another;
the infection rate for m. uniformis was 0.6 per cent.
spraying with ddt was carried out in all the houses during the last phase of
the investigation.  it resulted in a slight decline in the numbers and
percentage of mansonia mosquitoes caught.
diethylcarbamazine was administered to as many of the villagers as possible,
in a dose of 5 mgm. of the citrate salt per kgm. body weight once weekly for
six weeks.  eight hundred and eighty-eight persons received the drug (86.8
per cent. of the population).  considerable side-effects were observed in
nearly all microfilaria-carriers.  blood examinations were repeated one month
and again one year after cessation of the drug.  it was found that the
proportion of microfilaria-carriers had decreased from 21.1 per cent. to 2.2
and 2.2 per cent. respectively, the filariasis infection rate from 26.1 per
cent. to 8.6 and 8.5 per cent., and the mean microfilarial density of all films
from 4.8 per 20 c.mm. blood to 0.48 and 0.12.  larvae of b. malayi were not
found in mosquitoes dissected one month and one year after the mass therapy.
.I 734
.W
studies on loiasis in monkeys.
iv.--experimental hybridization of the human and
simian strains of loa
in the cameroons rain-forest there exist two strains of loa, each apparently
evolving in its own host-vector complex (duke and wijers, 1958).  the natural
simian parasite which is found most abundantly in the drill (mandrillus
leucophaeus), is characterized by the large somatic size of the adult worms
and microfilariae and by its nocturnal microfilariae periodicity.  it is
transmitted among the monkey population by the crepuscular canopy-dwelling
chrysops langi and c. centurionis.  the natural human parasite has diurnally
periodic microfilariae and is transmitted by the day-biting anthropophilic
c. silacea and c. dimidiata (bombe form).  it can also be transmitted
experimentally to the drill, in which host the parasites are of small somatic
size and maintain their diurnal periodicity.
as the two strains of contrasting periodicity can be maintained in drills, it
was decided to try cross-mating them to produce hybrids.  the present paper
describes the methods by which this was done, records the characteristics of
the hybrid parasites, and suggests that, when interbreeding, the two strains
segregate according to a simple mendelian pattern as regards periodicity and
somatic size.
.I 735
.W
development of dirofilaria immitis in anopheles quadri-
maculatus after exposure of the microfilariae to a
freezing temperature
blood samples containing dirofilaria
immitis microfilariae were stored frozen for
periods ranging from 24 hr to 4 months,
thawed at 38 1c and
fed through an animal-derived bandrode membrane to laboratory-reared anopheles
quadrimaculatus.  the microfilariae were capable of developing to the third or
infective larval stage and migrating to the head and labium of the mosquito.
.I 736
.W
advances in filariasis
especially concerning periodicity of microfilariae
a review is given of some advances in our knowledge about filariasis during the
past ten years.
it is urged that investigations should be continued on methods to facilitate
the control of filariasis in large populations, by means of
diethylcarbamazine--e.g. incorporation of the compound in cooking salt, as
was done with chloroquine against malaria.  furthermore, steps should be taken
to protect young people against filariasis by systematic treatment in the
schools.
in order to understand the cyclical disappearance of microfilariae from the
peripheral blood and their accumulation in the lungs, the movements of
microfilariae in the pulmonary capillaries has been studied by cinematography.
apparently their accumulation in the lungs is not due to mechanical retention,
but perhaps they migrate round and round in the pre-capillary network of
arterioles.
the periodicity of microfilariae is best considered as a biological rhythm.
apparently the microfilariae have a circadian rhythm of their own which is
entrained and synchronized by stimuli from the circadian rhythm of the host.
judging by experiments with monkeys containing microfilariae of edesonfilaria
malayensis, the most effective of these stimuli from the host seems to be the
rhythmic variation of body temperature which occurs every 24 hours.
.I 737
.W
attempts to transmit wuchereria bancrofti to cats and to a toque monkey
there are no records of the larval development of wuchereria bancrofti in
experimental animals.  in attempts to transmit periodic w. bancrofti to
domestic cats and to a toque monkey we recovered from one of the cats an
infective larva that had undergone some development.  this finding was
reported in a preliminary note (dissanaike and niles, 1963); the present paper
gives the experimental details and describes the larva.
.I 738
.W
the periodicity of microfilariae.
x. the relation between the circadian temperature cycle
of monkeys and the microfilarial cycle.
monkeys were used whose blood contained the microfilariae of edesonfilaria
malayensis, which has a nocturnal periodicity.
artificial lowering of the body temperature during the daytime caused the
microfilaria count in the blood to rise; and artificial raising of the body
temperature during the night caused it to fall almost to zero, i.e. inversion
of the normal circadian temperature rhythm of the body was followed by
inversion of the microfilarial rhythm.
the hypothesis is put forward that the circadian rhythm of the microfilariae
of e. malayensis (but probably not of the microfilariae of some other species)
is entrained by the circadian rhythm of body temperature, which thus provides
the "effective stimuli" to which these microfilariae respond.
.I 739
.W
the periodicity of microfilariae
ix. transfusion of microfilariae (edesonfilaria) into
monkeys at a different phase of the circadian rhythm
this paper reports experiments in which microfilariae at one phase of their
circadian rhythm were transfused into a host at another phase of the circadian
rhythm, in an attempt to analyse the relative importance of the rhythms
inherent in the microfilariae and of those in the host for the production of
the well known periodic migrations.  the experiments were performed with
edesonfilaria malayensis (yeh, 1960) present in a macaca monkey from thailand.
.I 740
.W
biliary tract morphology and prognosis
of biliary atresia
in 86 infants who did not have extrahepatic "hepatic" ducts, present
observation after use of artificial
bile ducts suggests that the presence of the
gallbladder may be of good prognostic significance in biliary atresia.
there are 11 long-term survivors (as of october 1965) up to 8 1/4 years of
age (100 months) after use of artificial bile ducts in 86 babies.  a
gallbladder was identified in 10 of the 11 infants.
other specific factors for this prolonged survival pattern in these infants
with biliary atresia have not yet been identified, although suggestive
correlations among minimal hepatic fibrosis, maximal bile ductule
proliferations and the presence of the gallbladder were noted.
it is suspected that if any opportunity for long-term survivals exists for
infants to overcome the tragic occurrence of biliary atresia that the
surgeon should avoid trauma to the hepatic pedicle.
we may be able to provide a "guarded" rather than a "pessimistic" prog-
nosis when the gallbladder is found in the babies with biliary atresia.
.I 741
.W
current concepts in the management
of congenital biliary atresia
the current management of congenital
biliary atresia at the university of cali-
fornia, los angeles is reviewed.
biliary enteric decompression was
performed on 18 of the 27 patients, eight
of whom are presently alive (29.6%).
these figures are higher than the cure rate
of 8% previously reported.
described recently.  five additional patients
with extrahepatic atresia underwent biliary
decompression by means of a hepatic
lymphaticojejunostomy.
early diagnosis of biliary atresia is im-
perative in order that any corrective sur-
gery may be performed before advanced
biliary cirrhosis develops.
.I 742
.W
congenital atresia of
the extrahepatic bile ducts
because congenital atresia of the extra-
hepatic biliary tract is almost always fatal,
exception to this course becomes of interest.
the remarkable history of one such infant
was reported in 1960 when he had attained
the age of 2 1/2 years and, after three opera-
tions, he was in good health developing nor-
mally and free of jaundice.  since he is now
8 1/2 years of age, has had two more opera-
tions, is still free of jaundice, and is again
in good health, his further course since 1960
should be of interest.
.I 743
.W
neuroaxonal dystrophy in congenital
biliary atresia
neuroaxonal dystrophy has been described in 8 patients with congenital
biliary atresia.  the characteristic changes include axonal dystrophy, a mild
loss of nerve cells and a variable degree of astrocytic reaction, mainly in the
gracile, cuneate and trigeminal nerve nuclei in the medulla, and rarely in
other parts of the central nervous system.
the neuroaxonal dystrophy in these patients is remarkably similar to that
in patients with prolonged mucoviscidosis and in experimental vitamin
e-deficient rats.
it is strongly suggested that the neuroaxonal dystrophy in these patients
with congenital biliary atresia is a manifestation of prolonged vitamin e
deficiency.
the neuroaxonal dystrophy in these patients is also similar to that seen
in aging and bears resemblance to the axonal change encountered in a group
of heredo-degenerative diseases, the various forms of "hallervorden-spatz
disease".  the pathological similarity between these diverse conditions
warrants further investigation as to the possible metabolic
relationship between them.
.I 744
.W
extrahepatic biliary atresia: comments on the
frequency of potentially operable cases
in a 10 year period, 35 infants with extrahepatic biliary atresia were
encountered.  twenty-eight babies, who were subjected to surgery and operative
liver biopsy, are discussed.  although an operable lesion was detected at
laparotomy in only one baby, 5 further potentially correctable lesions were
discovered in the 14 necropsies performed.  review of the literature revealed
that few authors have discussed necropsy findings and that confirmation of the
diagnosis by liver biopsy has been neglected in many cases, including some
of those claimed as surgical cures.  it is concluded that the frequency of
potentially operable forms of biliary atresia is not really known.
.I 745
.W
metabolism and excretion of c14-labeled bilirubin in children
with biliary atresia
and judson g. randolph
radioactive bilirubin was injected intravenously
into 3 children with biliary atresia.  the isotope
over a period of ten to fourteen days was recovered
principally in the urine.  sixty per cent of the label
in the urine was found to be in the form of bili-
rubin.  distribution of the radioisotope was observed
to be principally extravascular but not, as in other
forms of jaundice, in the same distribution as albumin.
daily turnover of bilirubin was several times greater
than the calculated normal daily production of bili-
rubin.  this was assumed to be due to increased
hemoglobin breakdown, confirmed by survival studies
of cr51-tagged red cells.  the serum half-life of intra-
venously administered radioactive bilirubin may have
useful prognostic value in children with biliary atresia.
.I 746
.W
central regulation of enzyme activity and synthesis
in embryonal and adult mammalian tissues
activity of non-specific hexokinase (hk) in soluble fraction and,
particularly, in mitochondria of embryonal liver is much higher than
in the adult rabbit; it decreases in the prenatal period, gradually
approaching adulthood values postnatally (fig.1).  embryonal liver
lacks specific glucokinase (gk) (1,2), although during the second half
of embryonic development there occurs incretion of insulin, known
to induce gk synthesis in the liver of alloxan diabetic animals (3,4).
activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (g6p dh) in
soluble liver fraction is subject to quite similar changes during
embryonic development.
.I 747
.W
ribonuclease activity in hepatic nuclei during development
mammalian liver undergoes marked qualitative and quantitative changes
during the development from the embryonic to the adult stage.  many of these
events are associated with the derepression or repression of certain enzymes
which may be related to specialized subcellular activity.  the involvement
of ribonucleic acid in the transcription of the information from the genome
into the construction of a finished protein molecule has prompted a study of
biosynthesis of the rna during differentiation.  although considerable effort
in this regard has been expended in amphibian1-5 and avian6,7 systems, as well
as in the sea urchin8-11, a paucity of literature exists with mammalian liver.
accordingly, an investigation of the alterations in rna metabolism which
occur during the development of the rat embryonic liver has been undertaken.
this report concerns the fluctuations in nuclear ribonuclease during hepatic
development and some of the properties of the enzyme.
.I 748
.W
an electron microscopic study of developing gall
bladder epithelium in the rabbit
the gall bladder epithelium of the
adult rabbit consists of two types of cells.
the first and more common type shows features associated with absorption,
notably microvilli, limited pinocytosis, some lysosomes and an elaboration of
the lateral cell membrane and intercellular spaces.  the mitochondria are
concentrated in a subapical band.
the second and more infrequent type is a dark rod-shaped cell of unknown
function but which may be a dehydrated epithelial cell.
foetal epithelial cells lack the functional adult characteristics; the mito-
chondria are uniformly distributed.  in addition they display basal granules
and apical apocrine bullae.
epithelial cell damage and white cell infiltration occurs between 24 days
after birth or just after.
just before birth some epithelial cells are very large and pale with smooth
outlines, others are more dense and display vigorous pinocytosis.
adult characteristics are acquired at or immediately after birth and pino-
cytosis subsides.  it is believed that water resorption occurs before the
functional changes which allow continuous passage of water into the
circulation.
.I 749
.W
congenital anomalies of the cystic duct
and phineas rabinovitch
anomalies of the cystic duct, of four differ-
ent types, are reported.  the characteris-
tic anatomic appearance and embryonic
development of each of these anomalies
are described and the clinical and surgical
significance discussed.
.I 750
.W
lesions of the liver in hereditary
metabolic diseases
whether the various cells of the liver, both parenchymal and stromal,
receive genetic misinformation in all hereditary diseases caused by gene
mutation is unknown, but the metabolic capabilities of these several cell
types are so diverse that it is not surprising that their involvement in
many such diseases can be demonstrated by clinical, pathological, or bio-
chemical methods.  repetitive abnormality of the liver has apparently not
been defined for any disease caused by quantitative (i.e., chromosomal)
gene anomaly, whether produced by nondisjunction, translocation, or
major deletion, perhaps because relatively few such diseases have been
described.  as a result, the genetically determined disorders of the liver
surveyed in this paper appear to be the result of conventional "single
gene" abnormalities, and to be transmitted in affected families by men-
delian mechanisms.
.I 751
.W
acid catabolic enzyme activity in relation
to accessory limb and cancer initiation in amphibia
cathepsin and acid phosphatase were determined in livers and kidneys
of adult rana pipiens and triturus viridescens.  organ-specific and species-
specific differences in distribution of these enzymes were found, as well as
considerable differences in the effect triton x-100 on the two enzymes.
a heterogeneous population of lysosomes in respect to enzyme content and
stability is deduced.
we have found positive correlations between catheptic activity of the
implant and host tissue dissociation, and between acid phosphatase and
inducibility, as features of the phenomenon of implant-induced accessory
limb formation in urodeles.  further, we have found a positive correlation
between catheptic activity and resistance to virus-induced renal adenocar-
cinoma development in rana pipiens.
.I 752
.W
neonatology
considerable progress has been made in the
knowledge of bilirubin metabolism since the char-
acterization of "direct" (conjugated) bilirubin as an
ester glucuronide.  the metabolic pathway involved
in this hepatic conjugation is now well established
and has been the subject of excellent reviews by
sherlock and billing.
sherlock's diagrammatic representations of biliru-
bin metabolism (fig. 1) and of the possible mecha-
nisms of jaundice (fig. 2) are reproduced here
because they furnish a clear picture to serve as a
reference point for the discussion to follow.
it is interesting to re-examine current concepts of
the etiology of physiologic jaundice with this dia-
gram in mind.  jaundice may occur for a number of
reasons, described below.
.I 753
.W
red cell glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency--a newly
recognized cause of neonatal jaundice and kernicterus in canada
seven male newborns of chinese, greek and
italian origin presented with severe hemo-
lytic jaundice due to red cell glucose-6-
phosphate dehydrogenase (g-6-pd) defi-
ciency.  in five, the hemolysis was precipi-
tated by inhalation of mothball vapours in
the home.  kernicterus was evident upon
admission in six infants and was fatal in
four of these.
g-6-pd deficiency should be suspected as
a cause of jaundice in all full-term male
infants of these ethnic groups.  the diag-
nosis can be confirmed in any hospital by
the methemoglobin reduction test.  in areas
similar to toronto, canada, where these
high-risk ethnic groups prevail, the follow-
ing measures are recommended: (1) detec-
tion of g-6-pd deficient newborns by
screening cord bloods of all infants of these
ethnic groups: (2) protection of affected
infants from potentially hemolytic agents
such as naphthalene, certain vitamin k
preparations, and sulfonamides; and (3) ob-
servation of serum bilirubin levels to assess
the need for exchange transfusion for hyper-
bilirubinemia.
.I 754
.W
trisomy 17-18 syndrome with congenital
extrahepatic biliary atresia and congenital
amputation of the left foot
the phenotypic characteristics of
the 17-18 trisomy syndrome have been well
described.  among the most recently docu-
mented cases of this syndrome are those
with findings of agenesis or aplasia of various
bones of the forearm and hand, in addition
to the more classical symptoms.
we have recently studied a case of trisomy
17-18 syndrome with congenital absence of
the left foot, and congenital extrahepatic
biliary atresia.
.I 755
.W
differentiation of explanted fragments of
early chick blastoderm
ii. culture on protein-deficient medium
enriched with rna
posterior fragments of head process
blastoderms were cultured in vitro for two
days on a protein-deficient medium sup-
plemented with various rna's, after which
they were grafted over the chorio-allantoic
membrane for eight to nine days.
pancreatic (adult) rna enhanced
the development of the entodermal epi-
thelium.
heart (adult) rna caused hyper-
plasia of the epidermis with, in some cases,
keratinized papillary projections.
brain (embryonic) rna produced a
papillomatous epidermis with giant epi-
dermal cysts that were keratinized and
fibrillar as in feather formation.
liver (embryonic) rna had no vis-
ible tissue modifications.
in the controls there was no keratini-
zation, nor papillary formation of the epi-
dermis.  the epidermal cysts were very
small, unkeratinized and devoid of fibrillar
organization.
the results are discussed in terms of
relationships of proteins from brain, mus-
cle and skin.
.I 756
.W
the inhibition of cell aggregation by a pure
serum protein
the aggregation of embryonic chick and quail limb bud, heart and liver cells
in a shaker system has been investigated in order to elucidate the mechanism of
cell adhesion.
a new method of assessing aggregation is described and evaluated; this
method involved measurements of aggregation kinetics.  it was found that the
measured kinetics agree closely with flocculation kinetics, which provides a
direct quantitative measurement of adhesiveness in terms of the
probability of an adhesion forming on contact between two cells.
using this technique it was confirmed that aggregation is inhibited at
1-2 c. in the presence of serum but not in its absence.  the kinetics of
aggregation in the presence of serum at 37 c., the lack of inhibition of
aggregation at 1-2 c. by serum which has been 'conditioned' by the presence of
cells, and the similar lack of inhibitory power of serum which has been
pre-treated with antiserum antibodies, all suggest that serum contains a
factor which inhibits aggregation until destroyed by cellular metabolism.
.I 757
.W
les icteres du nouveau-ne en dehors
de l'incompatibilite foeto-maternelle
statistical data pulled off a study of 30 haemolytic neonatal icteri
not linked to a foeto-maternal incompatibility, and of 200 non haemo-
lytic neonatal icteri.  among this latter, the two most important groups
are the malformative icteri (69 cases) and the neonatal hepatitis
(109 cases).  the difficulties of the diagnosis frequently rencountered
between these two groups clearly appear in the comparative statistical
analysis of the clinical, histological and evolutive data.
.I 758
.W
the immunological development of the human
fetus
the normal human fetus is said not to be engaged in the formation of immuno-
globulins; the immunoglobulins present in the serum of the fetus and the
newborn are considered to be of maternal origin.  in favor of this opinion is
the observation that directly after birth the serum of the newborn contains an
appreciable amount of igg, with gm groups identical with those of the mother
(68-70).  the level of the igg of the neonate decreases gradually during the
first 3 months (3,27,71), which is generally explained by the catabolism of
the maternal igg, whereas the formation by the newborn infant is still
inadequate to maintain the original level (16,27).  the best evidence for the
transplacental passage is the almost complete absence of igg in the serum of
newborn infants from mothers with agammaglobulinemia (3,27).
the transfer of the immunoglobulins appears to be a selective process
(13, 15).  while igg is readily transferred, there is little, if any,
transfer of iga and igm, as has been shown by ultracentrifugation and
immunoelectrophoretic studies of the serum (12, 16, 19, 20) and the analysis
of maternally-transferred antibodies (31-33).  with more sensitive techniques
such as the double diffusion test in agar or quantitative immunochemical
techniques, however, minute amounts of both igm and iga have been detected
in fetal blood as well as in cord blood from mature and immature neonates
(12, 19, 20, 23, 26).  since large molecules do not pass the placenta, this
may indicate that the trace amounts of igm originate in the fetus itself, but
transplacental passage has not been completely excluded.
the absence of immunoglobulin formation has been associated with the absence
of plasma cells in the lymphoid tissues and bone marrow of the normal human
fetus and the newborn.  it has been reported that these cells do not appear
until a few weeks after birth (2, 3, 14, 25, 34).  however, in pathological
conditions such as congenital syphilis and toxoplasmosis the human fetus has
been found to respond to the antigenic stimulus with intrauterine formation of
plasma cells after about the sixth month of gestation (24,25).
.I 759
.W
galactosemie congenitale
this observation of a case of congenital galactosemia with
a particular familial incidence gives the opportunity of a
brief review on the subject.
of a certain point of view we must consider that galac-
tosemia is much more frequent than we suppose, that there
are many severe cases with a reserved prognosis, that even
with very slight degree of galactosemia, the disease must
receive the most careful attention from the pediatrician.
.I 760
.W
postnatal changes in the portal circulation
during foetal development a large portion of the
oxygenated umbilical blood flows through the
umbilical recess directly into both main portal
branches.  accordingly, these are exposed to the
umbilical blood pressure and have a wide
by contrast, the trunk of the portal vein is narrow
and there is probably only a small blood flow through
it from the inactive digestive tract, though the
pressure in it is approximately the same as in the
umbilical vein or perhaps somewhat higher.
immediately after birth the liver is deprived of the
substantial umbilical blood flow.  the portal
venous pressure falls to about one-quarter of the
umbilical venous pressure at birth.  however the
pressure gradient between the portal veins and
inferior vena cava remains constant.
.I 761
.W
pattern of serum transaminase activity
in neonatal jaundice due to cytomegalic inclusion
disease and toxoplasmosis with hepatic involvement
the pattern of serum transaminase ac-
tivity that evolved in a newborn infant with
congenital toxoplasmosis and in another new-
born infant with congenital cytomegalic in-
clusion disease is described.  this enzymatic
pattern was unlike that found in infants with
any other cause of neonatal jaundice studied
to date.
.I 762
.W
impaired development of rat liver enzyme activities at
birth after irradiation in utero
development of activity of three liver enzymes at birth was studied in rats re-
ceiving 180 rads of x-rays on day 15 of gestation.  at 20 days of gestation,
activities of lactic and glycerophosphate dehydrogenases and
glucose-6-phosphatase were not altered.  the subsequent increases in enzyme
activities in the 3 days between 20 days of gestation and 1 day of age were
only 30 to 60% of those observed in controls.  this finding suggests that
irradiation in utero may alter later development of enzyme activity in the
perinatal period.
.I 763
.W
(cytological and cytochemical study of
hepatic cells in the human embryo)
changes in golgi apparatus and mitochondria as well as in the contents of
nucleic acids, proteins, polysaccharides, lipids and iron in the hepatic cells
of developing human embryo were studied; the data obtained in human embryos and
adults were compared.  it was found that during the developmental process some
changes in localisations of golgi apparatus and iron salts were taking place.
the contents of rna and polysaccharides in the cytoplasm increased:
mitochondria in the form of granules were revealed throughout the embryonic
period and in adults.  no essential alterations in the contents of dna,
proteins, and lipids were noted.
.I 764
.W
risk of severe jaundice in
glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase
deficiency of the newborn
the incidence of g.-6-p.d. deficiency and neonatal
jaundice in all male infants born in one year in an area of
the island of lesbos was studied.
of 634 infants tested, 29 (4.6%) were found to be
g.-6-p.d. deficient.  hyperbilirubinaemia of 16 mg. per
100 ml. or over was observed in 34% of g.-6-p.d.-
deficient newborn males and in 9.1% of those with normal
enzyme activity--in more than half of them in the absence
of incompatibility or prematurity.
this is the first time that such a high incidence of
severe neonatal jaundice has been reported in both a
g.-6-p.d.-deficient and a g.-6-p.d.-normal group.  it is
postulated that in the population of lesbos a second
factor increases the incidence of neonatal jaundice,
especially when this factor is combined with
g.-6-p.d. deficiency.
.I 765
.W
studies of b-glucuronidase acti-
vity in bile and liver of devel-
oping chick embryos and chicks
in search for the reason of the occur-
rence of unconjugated bilirubin and
biliverdin in chick-embryo and in chick
bile the possibility of a b-glucuronidase
function must be taken into serious con-
sideration.
.I 766
.W
jaundice in infancy
most causes of jaundice in infancy are discussed.  the empha-
sis has been on those syndromes solely or usually encountered
in the neonate and infant.
.I 767
.W
absence of the cystic duct
a case of congenital absence of the cystic
duct is described, the 18th reported case in
the literature.  the embryogenetic basis of
anomalies of the extrahepatic biliary tree
is discussed.  methods of early operative
recognition and surgical management of
the anomaly are suggested.
.I 768
.W
familial extrahepatic biliary atresia
a fifth family with familial congenital
extrahepatic biliary is described.
clinically and pathologically familial
and nonfamilial biliary atresia are similar
except for a predominance of males in the
familial condition.
the sex incidence and association of
other congenital anomalies is discussed in
relation to a possible etiology.  further in-
formation must be correlated and new facts
uncovered before the nature of this syn-
drome will be known.
.I 769
.W
linfangiografia no estudo da filariase linfatica
in the first part of the present paper a study is presented
of the lymphangiogram of the normal african; the author has
noticed that it is coincident with the one of the white indi-
vidual.
the second part includes the lymphangiographic examina-
tion and the observation of lymph circulation (via risa)
during the several stages of lymphatic filariasis.
even during the asymptomatic stage, lymphangiography
shows ganglial hypertrophy with a slight fibrosis and occa-
sional discreet alterations of the lymphatic trunks.
in the symptomatic stage, the lymphangiographic aspects
vary according to the disease's different stages and there is
not always a relationship between the duration period of the
symptoms and the changes observed.
in lymphangites, there are frequent alterations of the
lymphatic trunks, i.e., increase in caliber, extensive and seg-
mentary dilatations, numerical decrease with visualization of
anastomoses and higher permeability.  circulatory trouble evi-
dences itself not only by a decrease in the rate of the lymph
flow, but also by a very marked ganglial retention.
in adenites, in spite of the marked ganglial hypertrophy
due to intense sclerosis, there may be no considerable altera-
tions in the lymphatics, but risa already shows clear circula-
tion troubles leading to lymphatic stasis.
in adenolymphoceles, the obstruction at the primitive-iliac
level causes the lymph flow to deviate through the pre-sacral
anastomoses and reflux to the inguinal glands, thus causing
their dilatation and the formation of varicosities in the affe-
rent lymphatics.
in lymphedemas, our lymphangiographic results together
with risa's allow us to assume that the pathogeny is chiefly
influenced by three factors: lymphatic obstruction due to lym-
phangitis, insufficiency of the collateral ducts, and ganglial
sclerosis.
.I 770
.W
adjuvant chemotherapy in cancer of the
large bowel
the completeness of reporting, the avail-
ability of continuous statistical analysis to
warn of adverse effects, and the accumulation
of 300 cases a year have demonstrated that this
cooperative study group can provide a rela-
tively quick assessment of a new approach to
treatment of cancer of the large bowel.  it is
hoped that a study begun in january, 1962, on
the use of 5-fluorodeoxyuridine as an adjuvant
to adequate excisional surgery may demon-
strate that, with a drug known to produce
objective remissions in 20 per cent of a group
of unresectable cases of colon carcinoma
the five year survival rate in curative resections
may be improved.
.I 771
.W
cancer chemotherapy by prolonged arterial
infusion
our current experience is reported with
136 patients treated by prolonged arterial
infusion chemotherapy.  the patients pre-
sented a variety of far advanced cancers un-
suitable for conventional surgical or roent-
gen therapy.  antimetabolite solution, either
methotrexate or a fluorinated pyrimidine,
was injected continuously through a small
plastic catheter into the unobstructed artery
to provide a high regional drug concentration
for days to weeks.  the patients have received
drug infusion for up to 45 days.  their course
has been followed for up to 37 months after
treatment.
methotrexate with antidote therapy by
systemic administration of citrovorum fac-
tor was used preferentially in most patients.
a fluorinated pyrimidine, most commonly,
5-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine, was preferred for
hepatic artery infusion of liver metastases.
.I 772
.W
the montgomery tube to palliate
hypopharyngeal cancer
three cases of advanced, incurable cancer of the hypopharynx
have been presented.  in each instance, the simple procedure of insert-
ing an available prothesis served as an effective palliation for an
otherwise difficult or hopeless situation.
.I 773
.W
adjuvant cancer chemotherapy
development of a dosage schedule for adjuvant cancer chemotherapy
in surgical cases
an account is given of the development
of a dosage schedule for adjuvant can-
cer chemotherapy for surgical patients.
this treatment was administered for
two purposes:
as an adjuvant to radical surgery
to reduce the risk of blood-borne
metastases.
as a palliative measure for non-ra-
dically operated and inoperable pa-
tients.
for these purposes 3 dosage levels
were fixed:
a maximum tolerated dose for ad-
juvant therapy.
a maximum tolerated dose for pa-
renteral palliative therapy.
a maximum tolerated dose for oral
palliative therapy.
for this treatment the authors used
2 antimitotics, sp-i and sp-g, both of
which are podophyllin derivatives.
.I 774
.W
surgical palliation for lung cancer
the results of resecting incurable lung cancer
in an effort to improve the terminal course of a
small number of patients are briefly presented.
this is not a comparative study and no in-
ferences or conclusions are justified regarding
the choice of this form of therapy as palliation
in preference to other forms of palliative ther-
apy; however we do believe that the terminal
course of the patient with lung cancer is bene-
ficially effected by removal of the primary
tumor whenever this is technically feasible.
.I 775
.W
management of advanced endometrial
adenocarcinoma with medroxyprogesterone
acetate
a basis for progestin therapy for patients
with advanced endometrial adenocarcinoma
is presented.  the criteria for selection of
patients for hormone therapy and the sched-
ule of administration of medroxyprogester-
one (provera) is discussed.  evaluation of
patients for objective changes only, i.e., by
visual, palpable, histologic, or roentgeno-
logic means, revealed complete or partial
remission with significant palliation in 8 of
20 patients (40 per cent).  response to me-
droxyprogesterone therapy is apparently re-
lated to degree of differentiation of the pri-
mary neoplasm, the well-differentiated le-
sions being more responsive.  documentation
of tumor effect by serial biopsies during
treatment provides an index to the histologic
changes this progestin produces in suscep-
tible cases.  the effects of therapy upon
serial urinary hormone excretion rates is
documented in several patients.
on the basis of our experience, the treat-
ment of patients with advanced endometrial
adenocarcinoma with the potent progestin
medroxyprogesterone seems justified.
.I 776
.W
chemotherapy of breast cancer
the majority of cancer patients who are
referred for chemotherapy are in far advanced
stages of the disease.  the difficulty in deliver-
ing an effective dose of an oncolytic agent
to the involved areas may limit the results of
treatment unless the patient's tumor is an un-
usually responsive one.  the variability in re-
sponse between apparently similar cases of
cancer of the same cell type has become in-
creasingly evident, and is as puzzling as the
fact that 20 per cent of patients with breast
cancer will live 5 years with no treatment.  the
decisions as to the choice between chemother-
apy and hormone therapy, as well as to the
choice of the chemotherapeutic agent to be
employed, may be difficult.
as experience increases, the usefulness of
chemotherapy in the treatment of cancer is
becoming increasingly apparent.  it also has be-
come apparent that chemotherapy cannot be
regarded as a curative procedure in advanced
cancer even though an occasional patient ap-
pears to have been cured.  however, the value
of the oncolytic agents in prolonging useful
survival time, ameliorating many of the dis-
tressing symptoms associated with cancer, and
providing the physician with an extra tool for
a positive program in the care of the cancer
patient is now established.
.I 777
.W
clinical experience with palliation
of metastatic adenocarcinoma with
5-fluorouracil chemotherapy
chemotherapy of solid tumors is becoming a
more and more helpful therapeutic tool.  it
is probable that within a few years chemother-
apy will become firmly established as an ad-
junct to the primary treatment of solid tumors.
perhaps someday a cancerocidal chemical will
be devised that can actually act as antibiotics
do on bacteria.  for this reason it is important
for all surgeons interested in the treatment of
cancer to try to keep abreast of the recent ad-
vances in the field of chemotherapy.  surgeons
should also begin to use some of the technics for
palliation of incurable patients so that when
these drugs are added to the armamentarium of
primary treatment of cancer, they will be
familiar with the various technics and the mode
of actions of the drugs.
5-fluorouracil (5-fu) has had extensive clin-
ical use and has produced significant palliation
in breast and colon cancers with about a third
of these patients receiving palliation for five to
six months.
.I 778
.W
pelvic perfusion and carcinoma
of the rectum
a method of regional chemotherapy through
isolation of the pelvis has been presented.
all of the subjects were near the terminal
stage at the time of perfusion.  the survival
time and degree of palliation have been en-
couraging.
.I 779
.W
carcinoma of the esophagus
a survey of fifty-seven patients with cancer
of the esophagus occurring over a twenty year
period is presented.  the presenting complaints
of the disease, methods of diagnosis, and char-
acteristics of the disease are discussed.  three
equal treatment groups consisting of no treat-
ment, x-ray treatment, and surgical resection
were compared and the results were extremely
poor.  only one patient in all three groups sur-
vived longer than two years.  it was our con-
clusion, supported by the opinion of others,
that x-ray therapy gave the best palliation in
most cases and that surgical resection for cure
should be used in only the most suitable pa-
tients.
.I 780
.W
carcinoma of bladder: cobalt therapy
from 1959 to 1962, 202 patients have received
radiotherapy for carcinoma of the bladder.  radi-
cal therapy with cobalt-60 has been done in 121
of these cases.  these patients received tumor
doses in excess of 5000 rad in 3 weeks.  of 49 pa-
tients followed for 2 years after radical treatment,
28 are alive.  sixteen out of 32 patients with
stage b2, c or d tumors are alive; while 15 pa-
tients survived out of 30 with tumors of grades
3 and 4 (broders').  four of the 28 survivors had
cystectomy performed and none showed residual
disease in the bladder or lymph nodes.  the com-
plications of radiotherapy presented were not
considered to be excessive.
we believe that radiotherapy should be the
initial treatment for patients with infiltrative
carcinoma of the bladder.  the survivals pre-
sented at 2 years are better than those quoted for
radical cystectomy (whitmore and marshall)
and useful bladder function is preserved for the
majority of survivors.  we reserve cystectomy for
specific indications.
.I 781
.W
polyposis of colon
as seen in
private practice
familial polyposis of the colon may
present itself in a variety of clinical en-
tities.  from the cases discussed in this
paper the following forms may be enu-
merated:
(1) an asymptomatic phase with dis-
crete polyposis.
(2) a mildly asymptomatic stage
with diffuse polyposis.
(3) a premalignant phase with car-
cinomas in situ.
(4) grossly malignant phase char-
acterized by anemia and carcinomatosis,
possibly of multicentric origin.
to secure a complete cure it is im-
perative that the clinician discover and
the surgeon treat the disease in its pre-
malignant state.
worthwhile palliative results may be
obtained by surgery in incurable cases
by extensive resection of the primary
lesions and subsequent resection of any
recurrences or metastasis, whether local
or distant by second and third looks is
necessary.
special emphasis should be paid to
the emotional problems of the patients.
an encouraging, sympathetic attitude on
the part of the surgeon is essential and
rewarding.
.I 782
.W
systemic chemotherapy
for cns metastases
of solid tumors
of the 13 cases studied, remissions were ob-
tained in eight.  this 62% remission rate is not
significant because of the number of variables
present.  however, we believe that chemother-
apy for this type of patient is indicated, as sup-
ported by the reported data.  the results suggest
that the blood supply to solid tumors is different
from that of tumors associated with hematopoi-
etic disorders.  the latter respond very poorly,
if at all, to systemic therapy.  although we were
not able to measure the central nervous system
(cns) lesions exactly, the regression of the
cns symptomatology was significant.  in pa-
tients who had other demonstrable metastatic
disease, those lesions also regressed.  with this
evidence we feel that patients with metastatic
cns lesions, even when these have recently
resulted in paralysis or seizures, should be con-
sidered for systemic chemotherapy.
.I 783
.W
combined 5-fluorouracil and supervoltage
radiation therapy in the palliative manage-
ment of advanced gastrointestinal cancer:
a pilot study
malcolm y. colby, margaret a. holbrook
5-fluorouracil in combination with supervoltage radiation
therapy was employed in the palliative treatment of 44 pa-
tients with advanced gastrointestinal carcinoma.
a total dose of from 40 to 50 mg. per kilogram of body
weight of 5-fluorouracil given by rapid intravenous injection
at the onset of radiation therapy was found to be relatively
safe and tolerable.  larger doses were associated with excessive
toxicity and mortality.
a sufficient number of patients achieved objective and
subjective palliation to justify controlled study of the possible
additive or synergistic role that 5-fluorouracil may have when
combined with radiation therapy.
.I 784
.W
palliation by radiotherapy
the purpose of radiotherapy in the management
of cancer of the lung is first to cure the disease;
second, to prolong useful and comfortable exist-
ence; and third, to provide comfort and relief of
suffering to those who are symptomatic and in-
curable.
cancers of the lung vary quite widely in their
response to radiation.  those of glandular origin,
the adenocarcinoma, are more often than not of
modest susceptibility and sometimes quite resis-
tant.  the very undifferentiated, the so-called oat-
cell cancers, are often of exquisite sensitivity, re-
sponding to irradiation almost like lymphomas.
most cancer of the lung, however, is squamous-cell
carcinoma and as such may be considered to be
moderately radiosensitive in much the same order
of magnitude as squamous-cell carcinoma of the
skin, cervix or larynx, and should, in theory, be
curable by this means in the same degree.  unfor-
tunately, this has to date not been found to be
true.  the reasons are principally two: first and
foremost, by the time a diagnosis is made, cancer
of the lung has more often than not, estimated at
80% and more, spread beyond the site of origin,
thus making cure by any effective means presently
available unlikely.  second, the substrate in which
the cancer grows, the lung, tolerates radiation less
well than do the tissues which surround the highly
radiocurable epithelial cancers such as carcinoma of
the skin, cervix, and larynx, thus making an un-
favorable therapeutic ratio.
.I 785
.W
chlorambucil-prednisolone therapy
for disseminated breast carcinoma
over a 7 1/2-year period, 71 patients with
disseminated breast cancer were treated
with combined alkylating-agent-cortico-
steroid therapy.  chlorambucil and pred-
nisolone were the drugs of choice.  these
agents, administered orally, produced no
serious or disagreeable toxic effects.  twen-
ty-four patients (33.8%) had objective
regression of six months' duration or long-
er; average survival time after therapy
was 23.9 months.  results are statistically
similar to those obtained with sex-steroid
and endocrine-ablation therapy, presum-
ably because the three modalities have a
similar mechanism of action, ie. suppres-
sion and/or eradication of endogenous
estrogen.
.I 786
.W
recent advances in the treatment of
cancer of the esophagus
whether combining surgery and supervoltage radiation therapy will
noticeably improve the 5-year survival rate for carcinoma of the esopha-
gus remains to be seen.  it is encouraging, however, to observe at the time
of operation that the previously irradiated esophagus is firmly encased in
fibrous tissue, which gives the impression that the danger of disseminating
tumor at the time of resection is diminished.  in addition, the fibrosis sug-
gests that the tumor that had spread locally, beyond the limits of surgical
excision, may have been destroyed.
.I 787
.W
cyclophosphamide in the management of
advanced bronchial carcinoma
forty patients suffering from advanced bronchial
carcinoma who were treated with cyclophospha-
mide are reviewed.  the selective effect of the drug
in tumours of the oat-cell type is noted.  it is
suggested that relapses which occur while the
patient is on oral maintenance therapy may be
controlled by a further intravenous course of
cyclophosphamide.
full clinical and statistical details of all the
patients referred to in this paper are available on
application to the author.
.I 788
.W
esophageal obstruction
the use of an endoscopically inserted tube in the
care of esophageal carcinoma
our experience suggests that the en-
doscopic insertion of intraluminal tubes
provides a relatively simple and reason-
ably safe method of dealing with some
of the problems which arise in the man-
agement of patients with esophageal car-
cinoma.  such tubes would appear to be
of particular use in handling the prob-
lems of obstruction and regurgitation in
patients with incurable tumors, but may
also be helpful in preparing severely
debilitated patients with esophageal car-
cinoma to withstand the rigors of opera-
tion and radiation therapy.
.I 789
.W
palliative radiation therapy
the care of the patient with "incurable" cancer may be
directed by physicians of various backgrounds and per-
suasions.  if this physician has little experience in such
care, he is prone to be influenced by still prevalent atti-
tudes of therapeutic futility or by equally unjustified
premature claims for widely publicized methods recent on
the scene.  surgery and radiation therapy remain the
dominant treatment forces for the patient with cancer.  it
is unfortunate that lack of demonstration of good radiation
therapy has led to unjustified condemnation of the method
rather than the user, with resultant loss to the patient's
welfare.  to obtain maximal benefit, radiation therapy
must be allowed indications and contraindications like any
therapeutic modality.  these must be the responsibility of
the therapeutic radiologist.  application of realistically
stringent indications and contraindications does not lessen
useful accomplishment, but avoids unnecessary morbidity,
waste of time, money and effort, and delay in seeking
suitable treatment.
.I 790
.W
carcinoma of the middle ear
the results of radiotherapy in a relatively large
number of cases of carcinoma of the middle ear
are reported.  the crude 5 year survival rate of 100
cases is 29%.  there is no difference in survival
between those cases who had a preliminary
mastoidectomy and those who did not.  the use of
megavoltage x-rays probably increases the survival
rate.
.I 791
.W
sustained palliation in
ovarian carcinoma
management of 64 cases of advanced
ovarian carcinoma has been analyzed.
an attempt is made to compare the
value of radiation and the value of chloram-
bucil, using salvage time and sustained pal-
liation as end points.
chlorambucil, an outpatient oral medi-
cation, appears to be as efficacious as ra-
diation in advanced ovarian carcinoma.
chlorambucil may be used before or
after irradiation therapy.
pleural and peritoneal effusion respond
favorably to chlorambucil 80% of the time.
the possibility of using a different
dosage schedule is discussed.
.I 792
.W
clues in dealing with
cancer patients
it is clear that the patient with cancer changed
his pattern of communication at different stages of
the disease.  these patterns in communication were
the basis or clues for the doctor and paramedical
personnel to consider in making total care more
effective.  the bedside clinician of past days knew
these clues instinctively in his wise ministrations.
thanks to a gifted social worker these have been
now made manifest to help all of us in dealing
with cancer and perhaps other chronic relentless
diseases.
.I 793
.W
radon and radioactive seed volume implants
for extensive recurrent vaginal-pelvic cancer
radioactive seed volume implants for
extensive recurrent vaginal-pelvic cancer
result in extended control of otherwise
untreatable disease.  immediate and early
reactions are practically nonexistent.  late
complications are also rare, the most
serious being severe hemorrhagic cystitis
in 2 of the author's 13 patients.
.I 794
.W
terminal cancer nursed at home
perhaps the most difficult part of mrs. brown's illness,
was that she herself knew all about it.  she had been a
nurse for most of her working life, and was only too aware
of the deteriorating process of carcinoma.  there were
times, of course, when she would try to deceive herself, say-
ing that there was always hope that something new in the
way of treatment would turn up, and life would then be
worth living again.
.I 795
.W
advanced cancer of the breast
treated primarily with irradiation
the five-year results in 109 patients
treated primarily with irradiation for
cancer of the breast, mostly in the late
stages, have been analyzed.
in all cases, the initial intent was to
control with x radiation alone the primary
tumor involving the breast and its entire
lymphatic drainage.  irradiation remained
essentially the sole method of treatment in
84 cases.  postirradiation mastectomy was
performed in the 25 other patients, who
initially had been considered inoperable.
the plan of treatment has consisted of a
single continuous course of radiation ther-
apy, protracted over a period of seventy-
five to one hundred days and administered
in 3 closely integrated phases.  tissue
doses, superficial and deep, must be
brought to the highest levels required for
maximum biological effects within the
tolerance of the structures involved.
the immediate effects of irradiation
alone have been remarkable.  the re-
gression of neoplastic manifestations in the
breast and palpable nodes, the degree of
healing of ulcerated carcinoma, and the
incidence of recurrence have been re-
corded and assessed to determine the
efficacy of treatment.
.I 796
.W
the management of disseminated
cancer of the breast
when mammary cancer has spread to tissues beyond
the breast and axilla, the disease is incurable by present
day methods.  however the patient may be greatly helped
and tumor growth retarded by skillful and sympathetic
application of irradiation, surgical ablation, hormone ad-
ministration, and chemotherapy.  given in conjunction
with analgesics, sedatives, and ataractic drugs, these
measures can frequently reduce disability and pain and
prolong the period of useful comfortable life.
.I 797
.W
toilet training of an autistic eight-year-old through
conditioning therapy: a case report
operant conditioning techniques have been successfully
used in the treatment of a wide variety of be-
havioral problems including hysterical blindness (brady
and lind, 1961), tics (barrett, 1962), psychotic
symptoms (lindsley, 1956; 1960, 1961), reading disabilities
(rachman, 1962) stuttering (flanagan et. al.,
1958) enuresis (mowrer and mowrer, 1938; lovibond,
1961, 1963a, b) and encopresis (neale, 1963;
madsen, 1965).  neale (1963) successfully treated three
out of four encopretic children using operant
training techniques.  in the case of one 9-yr-old boy, with
an 18 month history of encopresis, going to the
toilet was rewarded by a candy, praise and recording the
event in a special book in the boy's presence.
soiling was not inadvertently rewarded (e.g. attention) or
punished; the boy would be given a clean pair
of pants without comment.  neale reports that response to
treatment was rapid and complete and 6 months
after toilet training there had been no relapse in bowel habits.
procedures similar to those used by neale were used in
the case reported here.  positive and, in a
small number of instances, negative reinforcement were used
to toilet train an 8-yr-old boy diagnosed by
a child psychiatrist/neurologist as having infantile autism.
.I 798
.W
incidence of symptoms of early infantile autism in
subsequently hospitalized psychiatric patients
this study was concerned with the
relationship between the occurrence dur-
ing the first two years of life of symptoms
of early infantile autism, as retrospective-
ly reported by the mothers of s's and
subsequent adjustment.  the mothers of
69 unmarried young hospitalized psychia-
tric patients were interviewed to deter-
mine the presence or absence of each of
28 different signs contained in a check
list.  the signs represent characteristic
features that are reportedly often found
in conjunction with early infantile autism.
as a control, 50 mothers of high school
students residing in the community and
presenting no significant adjustment prob-
lems were questioned in regard to the
very same items.
the results indicated that there were
significantly more symptoms reported for
patients than for normals, and that this
finding applied to the overall number of
symptoms as well as to several subcate-
gories of symptoms.  the items classified
under the heading of "social withdrawal"
appeared to be the most sensitive in dif-
ferentiating the groups.  it was also found
that 11 of the 28 signs distinguished be-
tween the patients and normals, with all
except one occurring more frequently in
the former group.  it was concluded that
a significant relationship existed between
the reported presence of symptoms that
are often associated with severe and early
ego impairment and subsequent status as
a mental hospital patient.  this study does
not provide any direct answer to the ques-
tion of what proportion of children with
infantile autism are later able to make an
adequate adjustment outside of a mental
hospital.
.I 799
.W
eeg abnormalities in early childhood schizophrenia:
a double-blind study of psychiatrically distrubed
and normal children during promazine sedation
eeg tracings during promazine sedation
were obtained on 58 children who had
autistic or symbiotic childhood psychosis.
for comparison eeg's were done under
identical conditions on 4 other groups of
children: 44 with chronic undifferentiated
schizophrenia; 37 non-psychotic children
with severe, acting-out behavior disorders;
10 with neuroses; and 13 psychiatrically
normal children.  final clinical diagnoses
were made without knowledge of the eeg
readings as determined for this study, and
the eeg's were all placed in random order
and read without any knowledge of the
clinical diagnosis.  eeg abnormalities ac-
cepted were focal slowing, focal spikes,
paroxysmal spikes and waves, and par-
oxysmal spikes and waves with independent
spikes.
among the 149 patients 51% had abnormal
records.  none of the psychiatrically normal
children had eeg abnormalities.  except
for the neurotics, the eeg abnormalities
were qualitatively and quantitatively sim-
ilar in the psychiatric patients.  the
most frequent abnormalities were ir-
regular paroxysmal spike and wave com-
plexes, often best seen during the
transition from wake to sleep.  of the 149
patients, 33% had this complex, either alone
or with independent spikes.  although these
complexes were most frequent in the au-
tistic-symbiotic group, the incidence was
not statistically significantly different from
the higher performing, chronic undiffer-
entiated schizophrenics who had communi-
cative speech or the non-psychotic children
with acting-out behavior disorders.
of the 58 autistic-symbiotic children, 19%
had seizures, which is similar to the 13%
seizure incidence in the remaining 91 psy-
chiatric patients.
whether the cerebral dysfunction im-
plied by this study is a primary disorder
or is secondary to some factor such as the
effect of prolonged anxiety on body chem-
istry cannot be decided at this time.  never-
theless, an organic concomitant has been
demonstrated in 51% of the psychiatrically
disturbed children.  by increasing the
amount of time included in the eeg sam-
ple, the incidence of electrical abnormalities
might be even higher.
.I 800
.W
on early infantile psychosis.
the symbiotic and autistic syndromes
in conclusion, i wish to state that the
core of child psychosis must
be sought in one or the other of the
described distortions of the sym-
biotic phase.  in the first case, what lay
at the heart of the psychotic dis-
turbance was the marked emotional
unavailability of the mother,
which alternated with a purely physical
extreme closeness during the
breast-feeding situations, and particularly
with the destructiveness of
the mother's unpredictable rage attacks.
the contrasting experiences
drove the child to the autistic warding
off of any human contact and
the de-animation of the world of reality.
constitutional factors could
not, in this case, be evaluated with any
degree of accuracy.
in the second case, it was, by contrast,
the mother's ever-presence
that created an unendurable instrusion
upon and interference with
the structuralization of the budding ego,
which constitutionally and
perhaps predispositionally may have been
very vulnerable.  this made
it impossible for the infant to experience
the normal alternation of
the gratification-frustration sequences at
his own pace; it also made
the process of individuation in the
separation-individuation period
one which was beset with abysmal panic.
in both instances, we can see that it was
primarily in the severe dis-
tortions of the normal symbiosis that the
child psychosis had its roots.
.I 801
.W
autopathy:follow-up of cases
the publication of two papers
recently in the acta paedopsychiatrica by
d. arn. van krevelen on the subject of "autistic
psychopathy", has stimulated the author
to present 5 cases which appear to conform to
his description.  the only value of this brief
contribution lies in the fact that they have all
been followed up for at least 10 years, and
this may give some idea of the eventual results
in this type of cases.
.I 802
.W
sensory dominance
in autistic imbecile children and controls
in a previous experiment (hermelin and
o'connor, 1964) it was found that autistic
and control imbecile children responded most
frequently to a light stimulus in conditions of
bimodal, simultaneous stimulation.  however,
the role of the relative intensity level of the
stimuli remained to be determined.  in the
present experiment a light and a sound, or a
light and a verbal command were presented
simultaneously in various intensity combina-
tions.  all responses, irrespective of the stim-
ulus to which they were made, were
rewarded.  autistic, mongol, and nonmongol
imbecile children were tested.  in addition to
a tendency for visual dominance results
showed that independent of modality, high
intensities affected all groups.  nonmongol
imbecile children also responded significantly
more frequently to the verbal than to the
sound stimulus, while the other two groups
did not.
.I 803
.W
dreaming sleep in autistic twins
each of 5-year-old identical autistic twins
was observed during one spontaneous all
night sleep session during which their
electroencephalogram, eye movement, heart
rate, and chin muscle potential were recorded.
these autistic twins showed a similar
patterning and amount of dreaming sleep to
each other and to that reported for normal
children of the same age.
.I 804
.W
twins discordant
for early infantile autism
a pair of heterozygous twins discordant
for early infantile autism is reported and the
relevant literature reviewed.  although mani-
fest organic factors were ruled out, the twins'
physical development was different.  a spe-
cific emotional etiology was not demon-
strated.  the few available twin studies offer
findings consistent with the hypothesis that
genetic factors are relevant to the develop-
ment of childhood autism.  evidence is also
presented that impaired acquisition of lan-
guage may have hereditary determinants.
a second set of probably homozygous
twins are reported who were also discordant
for autism.  this second case suggests that,
although genetic factors may play a part, in
some cases the syndrome of infantile autism
appears to be a reversible one.  in view of
this set of twins and of kanner's sibling data,
the role of genetic factors remains obscure,
and more twin studies properly documented
with blood typing are needed.
.I 805
.W
evaluation and treatment planning
for autistic children
infantile autism is considered to be a re-
action on the part of an immature organism
at a primitive and undifferentiated stage of
ego development.  little choice of defensive
reactions is available; the possibility of sub-
limation does not exist and, even though
other object relationships are gradually
developing, the mother is still the child's
primary object.  at this vulnerable develop-
mental stage, a wide range of pathological
circumstances, ranging from the most severe
family psychopathology to the most adventi-
tious physiological traumata or the most un-
fortunately malignant circumstances, may
constitute an acute or cumulative cata-
strophic stress.  the primitive organism
tends to respond to this overwhelming stress
with a paranoid reaction which is directed at
the mother (regardless of the actual etiologi-
cal variables) because the mother is still the
child's primary object.  we believe that the
child then responds with an autistic reaction
and shows varying degrees of simple with-
drawal, obsessional behavior, magical or de-
lusional thought processes, and consequent
disruption of developmental skills, speech,
and relationships with others.
many families can and do make every
effort to counter the paranoid reaction of the
child and do not respond to his rejection with
counterrejection and counterwithdrawal.
some of the child's autistic symptoms may
abate without formal treatment.  yet, since
the mother (and family) are the primary
objects of the child's paranoid attitude, it is
felt that formal therapeutic intervention is
necessary to modify the paranoid core of
the autistic reaction.
.I 806
.W
a twenty-five year view of
therapeutic results
thus this group of ten patients shows a complete range of
chronic schizophrenia from a bright pseudoneurotic never hospitalized,
to an inaccessible patient chronically hospitalized for 20 years.
physiological therapy in the form of metrazol-induced convulsions
given in the course of a puberty schizophrenic psychosis, has been
helpful to some by making them more accessible for the total treat-
ment program in the hospital or by raising their margin of tolerance
sufficiently so that they could live at home and attend public schools
at least for a time and at best, indefinitely.
several of the most regressed, deteriorated patients in state hospitals
for many years, have been brought back to some level of meaningful
living again by the current drug therapy program, and are still im-
proving.
now we have not determined who the sinner may be.  there are
many who will believe that the mother is always the sinner; is she
not schizophrenogenic?  there are others who will believe that the
individual himself is the sinner since, after all, is he not the one
whose behavior and fantasies are schizophrenic?  however, there will
be many of you attending this fifty-second annual meeting of the
american psychopathological association, who will judge the speaker
to be the sinner, for have i not given you this wealth of clinical ma-
terial without charts, graphs, or statistical evaluation?
.I 807
.W
group psychotherapy with preschool
psychotic children and collateral
group therapy of their parents:
a preliminary report of the first two years
a group approach in the treatment of preschool-aged psychotic children is
reported.  autism is a defense against loss of the symbiotic partner.  the
group of children penetrates this defense and forms a "group ego," which
constitutes one pole of a new therapeutic symbiosis from which
separation-individuation can occur.
.I 808
.W
autistic reactions in early childhood:
differential diagnostic considerations
the term "autism" is frequently used today
in the differential diagnosis of the severe
emotional disturbances of early childhood.
however, to label a child as "autistic"
presents some formidable problems with
regard to definition of the term, the specific
etiological-diagnostic implications, and
treatment considerations for any given
child so designated.  the purpose of this
paper is to briefly review some of the
historical psychiatric background of the term
"autism", its more recent ramifications,
and our clinical experiences in this field.
.I 809
.W
infantile autism: a family approach
the autistic child appears to be unable to integrate or to respond to
stimuli, both from an internal source, the body, as well as from external
sources, such as human contact.  we have noted in the children at our
residential treatment center how in their preliminary period with us they
appear to be unaware of their body; they give the impression of being
insensitive to pain, display little autoerotic behavior, inflict injury on
themselves, such as hitting their heads against objects and biting their own
bodies, with little outward display of distress.  in working with these
children in therapy, one of the guideposts for change and for growth is a
display on the child's part of an increased body awareness and autoerotic
behavior.  for example, one child who developed polio during his early stay
at the clinic residence did not communicate this to anyone and it was only
made known by observing the child's dragging one leg (memorial guid-
ance clinic, 1959).  later, he was able to point to his body and to indicate
pain.  another child, who at first seemed to be quite unaware of both himself
and others, concurrent with his growing display of affective expression
toward the therapist also manifested pleasure through genital stimulation,
was quite ticklish, and when injured would display the area of pain quite
readily.
.I 810
.W
an analysis of the language of fourteen
schizophrenic children
fourteen schizophrenic (autistic) children were studied by means of detailed
behavioural histories and observations.
the language recorded in history and observation protocols was analysed and
compared with available data on normal children.
all schizophrenic children were grossly retarded in their language development
and all measures of this correlated highly with a previous overall clinical
assessment of the severity of illness.
the most striking abnormalities in the language of the children studied were
stereotyped repetition of utterances appropriate to an earlier developmental
level or to a previous environmental context, accompanied by a lack of normal
expressions of curiosity and of responsiveness to changing environmental cues.
.I 811
.W
a behavioural and electroencephalographic
study of autistic children
short biographies are given of 10 children,
age 3 to 6 years, diagnosed as suffering from
kanner's syndrome (early infantile autism).
an analysis was made of the free-field acti-
vities of these children compared with a group
of normal children of similar age.  electro-
encephalographic studies were also carried out
on all 10 children, and in two it was possible
to carry out simultaneous behavioural and
eeg observations by means of telemetry.
the children were observed for three minute
periods in four environments of varying
complexity: a. an empty room; b. the same
room with toy wooden blocks present;
c. blocks plus passive adult; d. blocks plus active
adult.  except in a the visual fixations and
manipulatory activities were of significantly
shorter duration in the autistic children than
in the normals, lacked clear 'cut-off' points
and showed relatively little variability between
environments.  the autistic children as a
whole showed virtually no constructive play in
contrast with the normals, though more
time was spent in contact with play materials in
the social environments.  changes in the
time spent in locomotion, gesturing, block-play
and manipulation of other objects in the
environment showed that the autistic children
were acutely responsive to changes in their
environment, including the presence of the social
stimulus.  if the autistic children were
subdivided into those who characteristically showed
stereotypies and those who did not, the
latter sub-group showed a behaviour structure which
was very similar to that of the normals,
whereas the stereotypy sub-group was clearly
differentiated from both the normal children
and the non-stereotypy sub-group.
eight autistic children had waking eeg
records characterized by low voltage irregular
activity without any established rhythms;
one child, a record containing irregular alpha
and another unstable theta activity.  two of
the children with 'flat' laboratory eegs showed
more rhythmic, higher voltage records when
their eegs were telemetred in environment
a.  they also showed less stereotyped behaviour.
in environments b and d they showed pro-
gressively more irregular eeg activity and
more stereotypy.
the hypothesis is advanced that autistic
children are in a chronically high state of physio-
logical arousal.  the findings of the present
study and those of other workers are discussed
with respect to this hypothesis.
.I 812
.W
the autistic child in the school and the
school-nurse teacher responsibility
autistic children demonstrate a more persistent pattern of retreating
from reality than is apparent in those children categorized as normal.
some psychologists have established the cause of symptoms in the autistic
child as extreme anxiety which forces withdrawal from social contact.
such anxiety is reported to have its initial occurrance during the age
range of one to five years.  a sense of security which is considered es-
sential for a child is gained through overt manifestations of love, care and
approval of those adults most closely associated with him.  when this
need is not satisfied, the child's attempts at self-realization and esteem
are deterred or thwarted, and a state of anxiety may result.  the severity
of the anxiety may be the forerunner of a schizophrenic disorder.  such
a condition can develop in a child, an adolescent or an adult.  schizo-
phrenia, a serious mental illness, is considered to be a major cause for
admitting patients to mental institutions.
another school of thought has placed infantile autism in the category
of a disturbance resulting from abnormalities of development during the
intrauterine period.  such a congenital condition is not categorized as
mental retardation.
yet another concept of autism conceives of the problem as the absence
of an innate ability or capacity for developing meaningful contacts with
other people.  a detachment of varying degrees persists where human
contacts are concerned.
.I 813
.W
the autistic child
the conditions most frequently mistaken
for autism are speech disorder, brain damage
and mental deficiency, each a prominent
symptom of the psychotic child.  careful his-
tory and close observation to disclose symp-
toms of withdrawal, lack of ego, compulsion
for sameness, and displays of intelligence
give incomplete clues to the diagnosis.
the etiology of autism is uncertain.  sev-
eral factors seem significant.  the important
role of organic damage of the brain is under-
scored by the coincidence of epilepsy, eeg
and neurological abnormalities in these chil-
dren.  in our series seizures of various types
occurred in 25%, eeg abnormalities in 58%,
and minor neurological deficits in 70% of
the cases.  environmental factors are quite
obviously important in many instances.  the
emotional and behavioral pattern of the par-
ents toward the infant is often incriminated.
separation, inattention, coldness, rejection,
etc. have been found in many situations.  fa-
milial incidence of psychoses is low; so is
that of autism in siblings.
.I 814
.W
shadow therapy
shadow therapy was developed at sunland
training center in gainesville, florida, because of communica-
tion difficulties with disturbed, psychotic children.  it was con-
jectured that subjects would reveal their anxieties and conflicts
more readily in a simulated night situation.
the therapy was conducted in a darkroom with projector
light used to produce silhouettes and their accompanying
shadows as additional stimuli.  twelve subjects attended.  in
this article, the reaction of a child who was autistic and severely
disturbed is used as an illustration of subject reactions.  in the
playroom, he exhibited static behavior; in the darkroom, re-
gressive-transcendential behavior.  he also transcended his usual
level of vocalizing and socializing.
.I 815
.W
language training in the treatment
of the autistic child
functioning on a retarded level
a preliminary study to
determine the effect of language and
speech therapy on the development of
communication and the lessening of un-
relatedness in a group of non-verbal,
autistic children functioning on a retarded
level is reported.  on the basis of the re-
sults of the study, it is suggested that the
inclusion of language and speech therapy
techniques be considered in developing a
treatment program for such children.
.I 816
.W
the convergence and interaction of visual,
auditory, and tactile responses in human
nonspecific cortex
the relation between the electrical responses in the human brain and
mental processes of integration and association is perhaps the most chal-
lenging of all the problems facing neurophysiologists today.  until quite
recently the prospect of unifying physiological and psychological concepts
by electro-encephalographic (eeg) techniques seemed to be receding
because of the baffling complexity of the intrinsic electrical rhythms, and
this difficulty has still not been overcome.  the most intriguing, and at
the same time most elusive, of the properties of these rhythms is that,
although often remarkably constant in their variations with respect to
time, they fluctuate also, in a much less regular manner, within the three
dimensional space of the brain.  the continuous analysis and display of
such a phenomenon presents serious difficulties, and no method has yet
given entirely satisfactory results.
the incentive to construct adequate equipment and to design and per-
form crucial experiments is undoubtedly limited by the uncertainty as
to whether the information likely to be obtained in this way is essential
to understanding brain mechanisms; few experimenters imagine that it
would be sufficient.
.I 817
.W
infantile autism and the schizophrenias
in a paper published in 1943, entitled "au-
tistic disturbances of affective con-
tact," i reported from the children's psychi-
atric service of the johns hopkins hospital
observations of 11 children (8 boys and 3
girls) who had in common a pattern of be-
havior not previously considered in its
striking uniqueness.  the symptoms were
viewed as a combination of extreme alone-
ness from the beginning of life and an anx-
iously obsessive desire for the preservation
of sameness.  i concluded the discussion by
saying: "we must assume that these chil-
dren have come into the world with an
innate inability to form the usual, biologi-
cally provided affective contact with people,
just as other children come into the world
with innate physical and intellectual handi-
caps.  if this assumption is correct, a further
study of our children may help to furnish
concrete criteria regarding the still diffuse
notions about the constitutional components
of emotional reactivity.  for here we seem to
have pure-culture examples of inborn au-
tistic disturbances of affective contact."
in my search for an appropriate designa-
tion, i decided in 1944, after much groping,
on the term early infantile autism, thus
accentuating the time of the first manifesta-
tions and the children's limited accessibility.
.I 818
.W
autistic children
autism is a form of childhood schizophrenia.  a sudden
separation from his mother or traumatic shock in
early life causes the child to reject the world of nor-
mal relationships.  leading him back to the original
traumatic situation is part of the treatment described
in this article.
.I 819
.W
gilles de la tourette syndrome in an autistic child
a case of gilles de la tourette syndrome
presenting an early infantile autism is
described.  the treatment applied is outlined.
.I 820
.W
psychodrama for disturbed children
psychodrama is especially adaptable to the treat-
ment of mentally ill children.  it evokes a degree
of spontaneity and involvement that is difficult to
attain with many group therapies, and it offers situa-
tions in which the children can participate as actors
or as observers.  competition and restriction are
minimal: the child can do what comes naturally.  in-
deed, much of children's natural play is in the form
of dramatic activity.  their make-believe is, how-
ever, more intense than acting, for a child becomes
the person or thing he pretends to be: a fireman,
an indian, a horse, a tiger.
.I 821
.W
the speech and language abilities of
emotionally disturbed children
the speech and language disorders of
these severely disturbed children can be
divided into two categories which relate
to the type of psychiatric disturbance.
the autistic-schizophrenic children used
bizarre forms of language or did not use
communicative language at all.  the non-
autistic-schizophrenic, the neurotic, the
primary behaviour disorder, and the
minimally brain-damaged children as a
group, had similar speech and language
problems to normal children but of a
more severe and frequent nature.  their
problems were predominantly in the
areas of speech and language develop-
ment, articulation, rate of speech and
fluency.  the children with primary be-
haviour disorders had the more severe
speech and language problems.
.I 822
.W
a study of childhood schizophrenia
and early infantile autism
(part i--description of the sample)
following a period of observation of
three months' duration, a group of twelve
autistic schizophrenic children were se-
lected for a treatment program.  the
group was selected on criteria which
would allow a reasonable chance of suc-
cessful treatment in a group homo-
geneous enough to allow statistical con-
siderations to be valid.
younger age, average intellectual func-
tioning, presence of an intact family in
or near to metropolitan toronto and a
firm diagnosis of autistic schizophrenia
were the limiting factors.
rather distinct differences were noted
in this treatment group as opposed to the
larger observation group.  the dis-
tinguishing characteristic was undoubted-
ly the speech abnormalities present.
.I 823
.W
discussion sur les pseudo-tumeurs osseuses
des hemophiles
doctors queneau and josso each described one
case of pseudo-tumour of the calcaneum analagous
to that described by trillat and favre-gilly; they
demonstrated x-rays; dr. alagille referred to a
haemophilic cyst of the maxilla and dr. favre-gilly
to a cyst of the perineum; dr. kugler had seen a
case where an erroneous diagnosis of osteosarcoma
had been made.
.I 824
.W
the effect of joint position on the pressure
of intra-articular effusion
it is known that joints with symptomatic effusions are held spontaneously in
characteristic positions and that movement of these joints increases pain.  in
the study reported here, a correlation was made between the hydrostatic
pressure of a joint effusion and the joint's position.  the results indicate a
possible relationship between intra-articular pressure and pain.